Work Done
=========
+ Jacob
    + Started working through the scripts called by the makefile and finding solutions.
    + Added Travis to my fork
    + Finished working through OFX build scripts, started looking at samples.
    + Started work on converting .hpp files to .h files with Cameron
    + Finished building Open Frameworks
    + Tried several ways to build the Open Frameworks examples.
        + Downloaded multiple automated builder versions from their site following the readme 
        + Directly cloned the repo and tried to do the same.
    + Attempted C wrapper for OISkeleton
        + Doesn’t normally compile, C wrapper has same error
    + Attempted C wrapper for OFXCpp
        + Missing header file, neither original nor wrapper compiles.
    + Compiled documentation and transfered to markdown
+ RJ 
    + RQ-SCRIPTS-DEPS-3
    + Assignment 4 requires the Make files to be updated more, found problems in the el7.sh
        + Doesn’t find ./dependencies/el7.sh.cache when it exists
        + Does this in libfreenect, libreenect2 and freenect depends
    + RQ-OPENNI2
        + Installed the OpenNI2, makefile had to rename the OpenNI 2.2 α because it didn’t compile that way. 
        + Had to install glibc.686
        + Had to install glut for dependency for SimpleRead 
            + Didn’t work, required libglut.so.3, when glut installed it didn’t install the required library
 
    + RQ-OGL 
        + OpenISS would either not recognize the kinect or recognize it and then tell me it was busy halfway through
        + Failed to claim camera interface: LIBUSB_ERROR_BUSY
        + Error: Invalid index [0]
        + Error: Kinect not connected?
        + Tried doing ps gx to find if the kinect was being used by something else but there was nothing. 
        + Can’t move forward with most of these assignments because of this not running
    + RQ-OSC 
        + Tried to get tinyosc functional. Tried adding a send function according to docs but it didn’t look like it was the right thing so I stopped trying with that. Mike took over and made progress
        + Issues with example issoscsender and issoscreceiver, default parameters for write message does not have a format so it will always error if you dont change the fourth parameter to a format option
        + Adding send always returns -1
    + OpenNI2/NiTE2 continued trying to work on it, realized I was working in x86_64 when I should have been using x64
        + Had an error everytime while running the output files 
            + DeviceOpen using default: no devices found
        + Tried to install OpenNI2 drivers in the libfreenect files but it didn’t work completely 
            + Had to change make file includes to add some libfreenect files
            + Stumped with ld -lfreenectstatic was not found
                + *Tried to figure this out until 430am*
            + Only documentation I found was that i could yum install it for fedora
+ Tommy 
    + Got the Makefile in /OpenISS/src/api/c/examples/fakenect to work
        + ‘make rungl’ work and ‘make runglpcl’ now work as intended
            + commands will only work if the user runs the following commands before hand
            > ldd freenect-glview  
            > export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib
            + it will run ‘rungl’ and ‘runglview’ using the ./TestRecording path
    + Tried to get the Messaging and Receiving to work
        + got RJ to help get to where he was with the sending and receiving and got to the point where one receiver terminal would be opened and one sender terminal would be opened afterwards. The sender terminal would say that it was sending messages, but the receiver definitely was not receiving messages. 
        + posted on canvas about the messaging and receiving and found out that the 
+ Mike
    + Downloaded a version of Doom Legacy, added IWAP files required for doom as well as installed SDL library/SDL mixer library. Have a compiled version of Doom that will run and have at the menu screen. Any proceeded gameplay would crash the current linux computer I was using so I didn’t restart the program but it works (sort of).
    + Downloaded a secondary batch of files from the Doom Legacy package that contains its main src files. Read through a majority and have documented most of the functions that I assume are HCI related. All are then zipped and placed into the project folder.
    + Went to Assignment 1 and attempted to build and compile the nethack program. Failed to do so as it had said it was missing libraries. There was also not enough documentation to explain how to properly compile it. I have created a text file and documented on all the HCI related files/function (files that I assume are HCI) and uploaded as a file onto google docs.
     + Looked at Tiny OSC and ran the test for the receiver and messenger, attempted to create the sender to send. Run both issoscsender and issoscreceiver in seperate terminals. the argv of issoscsender is the target ip address to send to. The result will send the buffer but not every loop and a little inconsistently but still managed to send to the reciever and the reciever is able to grab it and parse/print the buffer.


+ Kelly
    + Started working on .Protonect file to convert to .c and .h. ~10 hours
        + Lost work due to the fact that it wasn’t supported in Gedit and didnt save
        + Began converting necessary files that were included in the Protonect file
        + This led to trying to create a .h file to frame_listener and libfreenect2. (Which was lost)
    + Attempted to get the ISS Driver to work 
        + Multiple errors in doing so, including the fact that it couldn't find the iss driver in the etc/ folder.
        + Tried to run different make commands from make file and ended up doing each step by step. 
            + Still didnt fix issue
+ Karim
    + Verified compilation of ogl example files 
    + Worked on converting ogl example3.cpp file to .c
        + Finished after multiple days of work. Continuous misunderstanding of the goal slowed down progress greatly
        + Created example3.c, .h, wrapper.cpp, and wrapper.h
        + Conversion ended up working just fine, makefile runs correctly
+ Cameron
    + Converted some cpp files inside of the ../../src/api/cpp folder to c files
        + Later learned that some of the files didnt have certain api that cpp had
    + Worked with Jacob to try and update the cpp files even more
    + BIG BREAK
        + Message from syslogd@203-12-l at Dec 10 23:20:46 ...
        + usbmuxd:[23:20:46.904][1] config_get_device_record: failed to read '/var/lib/lockdown/7e2583d2c2cfbe93c211537cf2642de38b1409d0.plist': No such file or directory
        + **I CANT DO ANYTHING MY CONSOLE IS IN PURGATORY**

Working Examples and Scripts
============================
See CSI230F18/errors.md for more detailed problems and solutions

+ linux/el6/install_codecs.sh
    + Fixed by following https://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/install-ffmpeg-centos-7/ to install requirements
+ linux/el6/install_dependencies.sh
    + No package rtaudio-devel available. Could not find one for Centos or Enterprise Linux 7
    + Fixed by following install how to on https://centos.pkgs.org/6/linuxtech/librtaudio-4.0.11-4.el6.x86_64.rpm.html 
+ src/api/c/examples/ogl/Makefile
    + Works to compile and run tutorial 2 and 3

Non-working Examples and Scripts
================================
+ el7.sh #cmake -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=TRUE ..
    + “Looking for glXGetProcAddressEXT - not found”
    + Appears not to break script, no solution found.
+ linux/dependencies/el7.sh #yum install -y devtoolset-2-gcc-c++
    + missing libgmp.so.3 and libmpfr.so.1
    + yum install gmp-devel did not fix.
+ Open ISS Image Driver ./driver-test 
    + Missing the /dev/ISSIMAGEDRV 
    + Not able to fix with command line

Limitations
===========
+ Could not find a way to install libgmp.so.3 and libmpfr.so.1
+ Team 2: Jacob Biederman, RJ Bourdelais, Mike Zheng, Tommy Mann
+ Team 1: Kelly Herstine, Cameron Belcher, Karim Elzanaty
+ Special Features: lots of time spent


Write Up
===========
Team for Fall 2018:
Kelly Herstine Karim Elzanaty Jacob Biederman Richard Bourdelais Thomas Mann Michael Zheng Cameron Belcher

Documentation:
--------------
### Kelly Herstine Documentation: 
The project as is, is not much from when our team first started the project. There were a lot of ups and downs while creating different aspects of this project. In the end, I think that it all came down to time. We were all very busy with this class as well as two other classes and I think that a lot of us got very overwhelmed and we werent able to complete the project to the standard of what the class wanted. I tried to help out with as much as I could. I originally created different C files for the Protonect files but then ran into the issue that I then needed to create C files for the libfreenect files too. I also tried to get the server logging to work. I looked at the files that there were for the libfreenect 2 folder and found some logging examples. I then tried to create my own logging class which also didnt work as expected. Karim and I decided to try and work in some of the already made server files which then somewhat worked.

### Cameron Belcher Documentation:  
We didnt get very far into the project. I know there was a couple of times where a student and I would spend a long amount of time in the labs trying to figure out what to do. We would end up looking into a solution on the internet and then might actually break the system all together. Then we would spend more time trying to reverse the effect. I did find accomplishment in getting the Kinnects to work on the computers after we got the NVIDIA drivers updated. I think this project would've been better if it were over the entire semester, since I have two other classes that also require a lot of my time. In the end I started to try to do some things with sockets for the project as well as wrap the C++ files into C, but the Socket made an endless loop of messages that took a while to fix and I didn't know too well how to wrap the c++ files apparently. I ended up taking a more supportive role in the project, where I would assist when needed.

### Karim Elzanaty Documentation: 
The project has not progressed very much since it began. Most likely due to our limited knowledge of what to do, and how. Most of what I did was attempt to convert c++ files to c, make sure installs were all installed, and attempt to get things to actually run. The biggest roadblock was the complexity of the codebase, and our limited knowledge of c. I'm unsure if we were expected to know more about c++ to c conversions, or if a lot of what we did just wasn't necessary. I spent far too much time simply trying to understand what was happening in the scripts. I also didn't know how to test if what I had done even worked, past compilation. The last thing I did was attempt to create a way to log non-fatal errors and messages to a file. There was lots of sleep lost while pouring over file after file to try and figure out what was going on.

### Jacob Biederman Documentation: 
I don't think we progressed far in the project. We were able to build a couple of the other open source projects and get the kinect to show video. I was able to build Open Frameworks without obvious errors. I was unable to build the Open Frameworks examples. The biggest problem was not knowing c, not knowing what worked or did not, and attempting to use multiple open source projects that did not work correctly on Centos7 or Enterprise Linux 7. I think I successfully wrapped the c++ examples into c following an online guide, however I'm not sure because the original examples did not work.
### Michael Zheng Documentation
The project has progress in certain areas but definitely have halted and several other areas of the project. Attempting to have things go as planned for the most part would fail due to missing code or files. The issue there is that because some of the files uses its own libraries and headers one couldn’t simply look up a solution to the problem without running into other problems. While my team took on the main part of the project, I was able to contribute by assisting with my teammates or worked on the parts of the project that was not directly part of what my team was working on like NetHack and PSDoom (Doom Legacy). Since I was able to look at TinyOsc, I had a lot more contribution to that part of the project than I would’ve done on other parts. One main factor of this project was that many solution that were tried would usually lead to dead ends.


Achievements:
--------------------
### Kelly Herstine: 
I was able to get Nvidia to download properly on the laptop and was able to run Protonect which would show where the Kinect was as well as what it was capturing. I was also able to start creating C files from the previous cpp files that were in the Protonect and Libfreenect 2 files

### Cameron Belcher: 
I was able to get NVIDIA downloaded, The kinnect 360 and the kinnect One to work without crashing, assisted in wrapping C files

### Karim Elzanaty: 
I got NVIDIA drivers installed, got one ogl example fully converted to c, and tried helping others also do so. I got a "log" system to work properly, and would generally help others debug compiler errors.

### Jacob Biederman:
I was able to build Open Frameworks and document the required installations. I was also able to wrap C++ examples so they are accessible to C.
### Michael Zheng
I did the HCI related functions for both Nethack and Psdoom. I was somehow able to get the compiled version of doom legacy to get running  but as far as gameplay it was just at the menu screen. I was able to get issoscsender to send a buffer without an error code -1 and reciever able to revieve to data and read it.

Limitations:
---------------------
### Kelly Herstine: 
As of right now, I was not able to get Protonect files converted to c. I was also not able to make the libfreenect 2 files converted to the C files

### Cameron Belcher: 
Not a lot of knowledge on C in general

### Karim Elzanaty: 
I don't understand c very well to know the differences between it and c++. I was unable to convert more files due to time limitations.

### Jacob Biederman
I am not sure whether the work I did was wrong or there were compatibility errors with the codebase. I am also not sure how to wrap C++ for C and how to build many of the examples given missing header files and blank makefiles.
### Michael Zheng
Although I did not have as much of a problem with C but it was more on the systems calls and getting them to work was a limitation for me. There was also not enough communication for me to able to focus on a specific portion of the project.


Progress to date:
---------------------------
### Kelly Herstine: 
I think the most progress that I was able to do was to create the server logging with Karim as well as download Nvidia properly and get Protonect working when running.

### Cameron Belcher: 
Kinnects working!!!

### Karim Elzanaty: 
NVIDIA installed, one c++ file converted to c, and a "log" system with Kelly.

### Jacob Biederman
Wrapped OISkeleton and Protonect. Built OpenFrameworks. 
###Michael Zheng
Half of the OSC works somewhat.

Experience:
-----------------------
### Kelly Herstine: 
The experience of this project was one of the hardest that I think I have had to go through. I was expecting there to be work but I was not expecting the amount of work that we got. I think the main issue was that we had to not only learn C, but also apply it to a project that wasnt necessarily working completley (libfreenect). While I understand that we were able to continue working on the project around this issue, I still found it somewhat annoying to have to deal with because there was a lot of trial and error and scrapping of files that we made. I also think the worry of failing this class was at the back of my mind the entire time becuase I would try my hardest on different parts of the project as well as put many hours into it, but I would still not have anything to show and I think thats what worries me the most.

### Cameron Belcher: 
I didnt want to waste valuable time i could put into a project that I knew what I was doing, so unless I had free time I would procrastinate on the project to the last two days it was due. I am worried of failing the class, but I know I spent my resources correctly.

### Karim Elzanaty: 
This class was extremely difficult, but not because of the workload. There was much we just didn't understand, and the final project had much we just hadn't practiced. The few assignments before the final were small and focused, and the last one was a huge pace shift. I have a difficult time with things I don't understand, and this class had a lot of that. Lots of anxiety worrying about failing because I just couldn't wrap my head around all the information.

### Jacob Biederman
Working on an open source project is cool, and the mess is understandable. It's not so cool when it's not compatible with the OS and other students have done the exact same work previously, and the messiness is unprofessional in a standard assignment. The class should be more focused with clear and working assignments to actually teach linux and C++.
### Michael Zheng
I feel that trying to understand where for the project to tackle was the hardest. At the start I didn’t understand where to start or what to do. I was able to complete on the parts of the project that I know that I was able to finish/work on.

Future Work:
-----------------------
### Kelly Herstine: 
libfreenect still needs to be fixed. There are different parts of this project that will still need to be completed such as the part where there are cpp files that will need to be changed to c.
### Cameron Belcher: 
The C++ files needed to be files needed to be wrapped and we were not fully done with communication between computers
### Karim Elzanaty: 
Sending and recieving messages still doesn't work, and the conversion of many c++ files to c isn't complete. The wrappers themselves aren't made either.
### Jacob Biederman
Finish wrapping C++ structures. Write makefile for Protonect and find missing header file.

### Michael Zheng 
Completing OSC where it would be better in terms of reading and sending buffer

Bugs:
-------
+ Open Frameworks example build script / gui.


